Welcome back to Mrs Rundown, in today’s video I
am going to be recapping the events of Karate Kid,
a 2010 Drama/Romance film. Spoilers ahead!
You have been warned. Now like the video and
subscribe to the channel if you enjoy this video.
12-year-old Dre Parker and his mother, Sherry,
arrive in Beijing from West Detroit to start a new
life. Dre develops a crush on a young violinist,
Mei Ying, who reciprocates his attention,
but Cheng, a kung fu prodigy whose family is close
to Mei Ying's, attempts to keep them apart by
beating Dre, and later harassing and humiliating
him in and around school. During a particularly
brutal beating by Cheng and his friends, the
maintenance man of Dre's building, Mr. Han,
comes to Dre's aid, revealing himself as a kung
fu master who adeptly dispatches Dre's tormentors.
After Han mends Dre's injuries using
fire cupping, they go to Cheng's teacher,
Master Li, to attempt to make peace, but the
brutal Li, who teaches his students to show no
mercy to their enemies, challenges Dre to a fight
with Cheng. When Han declines, Li threatens him,
saying that they will not be allowed to leave his
school unless either Dre or Han himself fights.
Han acquiesces, but insists the fight
take place at an upcoming tournament,
and that Li's students leave Dre alone
until the tournament. The amused Li agrees.
Han begins training Dre, but Dre is frustrated
that Han merely has Dre spend hours taking off
his jacket, hanging it up, dropping it, and then
putting it back on again. After days of this,
Dre refuses to continue, until Han demonstrates
to him that the repetitive arm movements
in question were Han's method of teaching
Dre defensive block and strike techniques,
which Dre is now able to display instinctively
when prompted by Han's mock attacks.
Han emphasizes that the movements Dre is learning
apply to life in general, and that serenity and
maturity, not punches and power, are the
true keys to mastering the martial arts.
During one lesson in the Wudang Mountains, Dre
notices a female kung fu practitioner apparently
copying the movements of a cobra before her, but
Han informs him that it was the cobra that was
imitating the woman, as in a mirror reflection.
Dre wants Han to teach him this technique, which
includes linking Han's hand and feet to Dre's via
bamboo shafts while practicing their forms, but
Dre's subsequent attempt to use this reflection
technique on his mother is unsuccessful.
As Dre's friendship with Mei Ying continues, she
agrees to attend Dre's tournament, as does Dre
her upcoming recital. Dre persuades Mei Ying
to cut school for a day of fun, but when she
is nearly late for her violin recital, which has
been rescheduled for that day, she tells him that
her parents have deemed him a bad influence, and
forbid her from spending any more time with him.
Later, when Dre finds Mr. Han despondent,
he learns that it is the anniversary of his
wife and son's deaths, which occurred years ago
when he lost control of his car while arguing
with his wife. Dre reminds Han that one of his
lessons was in perseverance, and that Han needs
to heal from his loss, and tries to help him
do so. Han then assists Dre in reading a note,
in Chinese, of apology to Mei Ying's father, who,
impressed, allows Mei to attend the tournament.
At the tournament, the under-confident Dre
is slow to achieve parity with his opponents,
but soon begins to beat them, and advances to
the semifinals, as does Cheng, who violently
finishes off his opponents. Dre eventually comes
up against Liang, another of Master Li's students,
who is instructed by Master Li to break Dre's
leg. When Liang insists that he can beat Dre,
Master Li sternly tells him that he
doesn't want him beaten, but broken.
During the match, Liang delivers
a devastating kick to Dre's leg,
along with a series of brutal follow-up
punches. Although Liang is disqualified for
his illegal strikes, Dre is incapacitated,
which would allow Cheng to win by default.
Despite Han's insistence that he has earned
respect for his performance in the tournament,
Dre convinces Han to use his fire cupping
technique to mend his leg, in order to see
the tournament to the end. Dre returns to the
arena, where he confronts Cheng. Dre delivers
impressive blows, but Cheng counters with a
debilitating strike to Dre's already injured leg.
Dre struggles to get up, and adopts the
one-legged form he first learned from the woman
on the mountain, attempting to use the reflection
technique to manipulate Cheng's movements.
Cheng charges Dre, but Dre flips, and catches
Cheng with a kick to his head, winning the
tournament, along with the respect of Cheng and
his classmates, both for himself and Mr. Han.
Thanks for watching! Make sure to like the
video if you enjoyed it. Subscribe to the
channel if you want to see more of these movie
summaries. It really helps the channel out.